2018 January 30th

KEYNOTE: Utah Judge
finished law school 47 years ago in 1971 (that year TWO women got JDs)
Professional education for members of the judiciary 
Leadership: 1. care 2. challenge (in order to do those, you do not need any experience/power/etc)
never underestimate yourself; never sell yourself short. 
women tend to be "more diffident" about their abilities than men are
"the women lawyers of utah"
--> she and 12 other women started it
--> they were the only 12 at the time
recommended we make groups of people who are like us
#1 
#2 never underestimate it 
#3 just do it
be observant and notice what needs to be done
"if you see something, say something"
"a mature person does not think in absolutes...
has learned there is good & bad in all people and all things
...knowing no one is all-knowing, all of us need both love and charity"


NEXT: BREAK INTO WORKSHOPS
UNDERSTANDING WOMEN'S NEGATIVE INTERACTIONS WITH EACH OTHER:
Dr. Susan R. Madsen UVU Prof. of Leadership & Ethics (PhD from U of Minnesota)
(she was introduced by a woman who just moved here from DC)
She got an email from someone who said this workshop was not appropriate
Cited: Sharon Mavin, Gina Grady, Janniene Williams
Today's contents will help us interact with/manage/lead women & men
-why do women have problems with other women/try to bring them down/not support others?
Competition, jealousy, if many are successful you look less successful because so mnay succeed...
...women compare more: they talk more and rank themselves more, gossip more (?)
-gender differences
Is equality about being the same? 
Talked about how male infants look at mobiles, female ones look at faces. 
Give boys/girls different colors, toys, clothes, chores, allowances, 
Girls are less likely to get an allowance for doing chores--- so women are more likely to feel obligated to "serve"
More likely to comment on a girls' appearance, boys' brains
Acceptable for boys to roughhouse. If they fight, they are friends soon after. Girls... less so. 
When girls race, they're more likely to hold hands & run together than to try and win, or wait to see scores together. 
!!90% of female CEOs did sports OR speech&debate in high school 
-the sisterhood stereotype
women are expected to keep things equal
relationships often grounded in emotional/psychological processes
*women who rise in leaddership OFTEN HAVE FEWER FRIENDS. Less women up there & they have broken the rules --> judged differently by other women
-gender differences in the workspace
for men: 
are expected to be competetive (when m/f say "I could beat you at ___ sport" what do you think?)
for women:
women struggle to be friends with those whom they compete (UNLESS they are used to sports/debate & competing)
-how women compete:
indirectly. Is socially acceptable. 
About bodies. Social media, plastic surgery, TV... this is getting worse!!
"token woman minority" feeling like there is only room for one, so I need to keep my spot safe. 
Are more easily offended than men. 
Are quicker to "play games"
-Micro Violance/psychosocial relations
-Women are encouraged to protect themselves from each other:
the girl's guide to being a boss: without being a bitch
play like a man, win like a woman
that bitch: protect yourself from women with malicious intent
-Female Misogyny (dislike/contempt/prejudice from women against women)
is usually unconsicious 
-women are taught that all women should be equal
-and that they should be service-focused
-TIMES MAGAZINE: don't hate her because she is successful
-women who desire/obtain power USUALLY fail to live up to feminine stereotype
*READ: THE CONFIDENCE CODE
-as women move up, they are overthrowing traditional "sisterhood" things
*she keeps saying: "if you find this hard, read the slides again later if the words are too difficult"
I find that a little demeaning... But then again, I've specialized in this.
-politics
there are entire committees & subcommittees that DO NOT HAVE women on them in Utah government
when men are 50-60% qualified, they'll try it. Women won't unless 90-100% qualified. 
women need to "be tapped" 
-organizations:
most are hierarchical (bc men made them)
companies founded by women tend to be equally effective but DIFFERENT
leaders=> image of old white male
when women rise they are held to different standards than male counterpoints
women leaders appear "socially unattractive"
discussion of stereotyping--- you have one bad female coworker, then "all women" are "bad"
queen bee, iron woman
learning from moms, sisters, teachers, women at church. What do they talk about? Their weight?
-Rumination:
overthinking WAY more than men do. 
more likely to dwell on the problem rather than look for a solution (biological reasons??)
*training self to do this less!! Can freeze decision making, action, drain confidence. 
examples: what was evveryone else thinking? Why did I do that? I should have said __. 
-perfectionism
Women usually feel inadequate, it halts action
makes us feel down, sometimes makes us want to bring others down
-deflecting praise:
It was just luck. I was just in the right place @ the right time. Everyone else did the work. 
--> how can we deflect praise AND be humble? Not/deflecting is bad. BOTH. 
-unconscious bias. 
judge based on gender, then race, then age, then other generalizations



















